Hello and welcome back to the course on machine learning.
Today we're talking about the upper confidence bound and the intuition behind this algorithm of the
reinforcement branch of machine learning.
So let's get started.
As we discussed previously the problem we're solving is a multi armed bandit problem where you've got
five or more or any number of slot machines and you can bet your money in any one of them and you need
to find out how to bet to maximize your returns.
And basically we agreed that behind every machine there is a certain distribution and that's because
you don't know which of these distributions is optimal You need to combine exploration of these machines
with their exploitation in order to find out which one of these machines is the best and then you can
start exploiting that one.
And the modern application of this problem is of course advertising.
So if you have five or 10 or 15 or 500 different ads.
How did you find out which one is the best one.
Of course you can run just an A B test and then use the results of that.
But that means you're doing exploration and then you do an exploitation.
Separately you're going to include lots of costs you're going to incur you're going to waste a lot of
time.
We want to combine exploration exploitation and get to the optimal result as soon as we can and maximize
the output of our efforts.
All right.
So this is a quick summary of the multi-hour by the problem.
So let's go through this very quickly so we can get to the fun stuff.
So we have deep arms for example arms our ads that we display each time a user comes to our Web page
if someone ad is displayed or a user visits this page that's around for each round and we choose which
ad to display.
You can only display one ad like with the one armed bandits you can only pull one of those arms and
is one machine to bet on each round.
And as I gives a reward whether it's a or a 1 and basically are I of and of and is equal to one if the
user clicks on the add and zero if you didn't.
These are different and I'll go some actual total reward.
We get over them in here and so that's basically what we are doing.
And this is how the upper confidence bond algorithm works.
And I won't go into too much detail on this because I actually had lunch is going to run you through
this and you you're going to code this from scratch in R and you can code this also in python in the
following lectures of course so we're not going to waste spend time on this we're actually going to
get to the essence of the algorithm.
Right.
So let's get to the intuition part which is how does it work.
What's actually happening in the background when this algorithm is running.
All right so let's have a look.
These are our slot machines or one arm bandits and they each one of them has a distribution behind it.
We want to find the best one right looking at them we can tell which one it is.
But let's see we do not.
Let's see we know the end result.
Just for argument's sake what would it look like.
Well this is for instance in this case the distribute these are the distributions behind those machines
you've got you know the machine.
This is how they're spitting out the results with these distributions.
And just by looking at this you can you can tell right away which one is the best machine.
Which one would you bet your money on constantly if you were playing in this one right.
So right away here you can see that this one has the best return and you would want to just come all
the time just bet on this one and your outcome would be best.
But we don't know that right.
We don't know that.
And we want to find that out in the process of playing these machines of or using those ads that were
running and find out you know which one is getting the most clicks.
We don't want to we don't have the time and money to do that exploration before the actual campaign
is running.
We want to do that in the process want to maximize our return already from the very start.
So how do we do that.
Well let's transfer these traditions are the actual expected return from the distributions onto a vertical
axis so we're going to take these values and we're going to put them onto a vertical axis or here so
there's a vertical axis.
So for distribution one let's say the value is there for distribution to.
There was a value we could remember it was lower distribution 3 even lower for higher five 5 the best.
Right.
So those are the expected values or returns for each of those distribution for each machine that's why
r y axis.
But again we don't know that so what how does this Hougan work.
Well it assumes some starting point for every distribution.
It just assumes that there is a certain starting value that let's just assume that because we can distinguish
we can't discriminate against these machines in any way.
They all look the same.
Let's assume that they all have the same return and let's put it on that level.
Now then what the algorithm does is those formulas that are behind algorithm they create a confidence
band.
And it is designed in such a way that we have a very high level of certainty that confidence bad will
include the actual will include the actual return or the actual expected return.
So basically the first couple of rounds are going to be trial runs.
So we're going to intentionally just try out the machines at least one time each in order for us to
be able to place this value here and come up with a confidence band who is going to be very large at
The rest are it's very large.
But it is designed specifically in a way that the expected value which is this one over here we have
very high level of confidence falls inside this confidence level with a very high degree of certainty
for inside this confidence band which is built around this red empirical value which we have derived
and the very start it's all the same right so.
And then how does this algorithm work well out of all of them.
We pick the machine with the highest confidence.
But right now it can be any of these machines right they all have the same confidence but that we're
talking about the upper confidence ball.
That's why the algorithms called Upper confidence bounce.
And so we're going to pick any one of them because it doesn't matter which one you pick.
Again we don't know these blue these color lines.
We don't know about them.
All we see as as agent or as the person analyzing this we only see these boxes and old they're all identical
to us so we just pick any you want them to pick this one.
So what happens next is we actually pull that lever over that machine and something happens or we place
that ad right.
So we display that ad next.
And we want to see did the person click on it or did the person not click on it.
And in this case the person didn't click on it.
Right so it went this red value goes down because it's well now we have another observation just for
this machine that is added to the whole sample of observations for this machine.
And the value goes down because we'll all always the read value is like the observed average the observed
average is going to according to law of large numbers is always going to be in the long run is going
to converge to the expected expected return or expected average or expected value for this distribution.
So therefore it is very likely that this value is going to go down.
And now because we have an extra observation the second thing happens is the confidence bonds confidence
in.
Will you see that confidence interval become smaller simply because we have an additional duration of
course does it become that much smaller.
But this is just to illustrate a point because we have an additional observation we are more confident
in our predictions.
We are more confident in everything that's going on.
So the confidence interval slowly starts to shrink.
All right.
So the next step is now we find the next one with the highest conference bond.
So obviously on this one it's one of these for just picking a random one.
There we go.
This one do the same thing.
So again ad is displayed a person either clicks or doesn't click.
And that affects the average that we've measured so far the empirical average or you've you've pulled
the lever you've got CRN you know you're either one or you lost and that affects your empirical averages
red line and as expected it slowly starts to converge over like lots of iterations it'll start to converge
to the to the expected value.
So it comes closer and right away you can see now this machine is all of a sudden above all of the other
machines right.
So if this was the end of this iteration that's it we we would assume from here that this is the best
machine and would start exploiting it and therefore this algorithm would be completely useless.
But we shouldn't forget about the second thing that happens the second thing that happens is that because
we got an additional observation in our sample now we are more confident in this interval and these
confidence bonds they're designed.
Their only purpose is to include the actual expected value wherever it is.
We don't know where it is but they are they are telling us that this value is Greenvale somewhere inside
this box but because we've got an additional observation we're more confident our sample size is larger.
So we're more confident in the overall picture for this machine.
So the confidence bounds decrease and now as you can see it's no longer the top machine because even
though it went up the confidence bonds went down.
So now we're going to look for the next highest conference bond.
It can be any one of these three machines and just look at any one randomly for now.
This one and here.
Even though the red line is above the blue line.
So according to the law large numbers you'd expect this to converge to that.
But sometimes it can randomly occur that it can go the other way.
Right.
Things can happen like this.
It's all probabilities.
So basically it might even go up.
So we're going to end up even though the blue line was below the red line.
It can happen as a you know like as a just as in per chance right.
In the long run it will converge.
But on a random occasion it can go up.
It can go in any way.
And again we've got another.
Another element in the sample.
So the confidence balance converges.
OK.
So can we kind of get the picture of what's going on here.
So now we're going to pick the next one of the highest up reconfigurable and let's say this one then
we do the trial we do the rounds.
What happens is a person can do we win money from the slot machine.
And it goes down.
Probably not.
We didn't didn't click on the ad and went from money for the slot slot machine.
So the average of observation goes down comes closer to the expected value and the conference bonds
also decrease.
OK.
Now we kind of when our in business we can all of them are kind of starting to play.
Next one is this one.
OK.
This is the now because we know the end result.
We know that this is the best one right.
We know that this is the best ad or this is the best machine we should be using but like because we
we were kind of like given this insight just for argument's sake or for the purpose of this exercise.
But the person that's reforming this algorithm all the algorithms doesn't know that so unknowingly it's
actually starting to exploit the best option right now.
So again ok goes up.
Good call his ban goes down.
And as you can see it's still the best one.
All right so now we're going to do it again.
We're going to use this one again and it comes closer and the confidence ballon goes down again this
is all just full illustration purposes of course it's not going to go down by that Maij just because
one observation.
But we don't want to be sitting here through a thousand iterations this is just to demonstrate the overall
picture.
So even though we exploited the best option by exploiting the best option we're decreasing the conference
on which gives an opportunity or Breakstone any option if it goes if it keeps going up because it keeps
being good because we're building up the sample size.
This gives an option to the other.
It gives opportunity to the other options to or machines or ads to have a chance in the play so that
we're not just you know we we're not biased towards which one we think is the best or optimal outcome
optimal machine.
So now we move onto this one same thing comes closer.
Decrease.
We want to this one vast increase and we move on to this one and does increase and then again this one
the crease.
And again this one much closer has increased and even though we were very close to finding the solution
at Sarwan bonds the bonds decreased so much and you actually see this in the practical application and
practical Torahs are following that sometimes we will after using the optimal option for some time we'll
switch the Algor will still switch to a suboptimal option just because the balls are decreasing all
the time.
And then we'll use this one as will decrease and now we're back to the best one on the increase.
And then we're just going to be exploiting this one and exploiting this one and exploiting this one
because we found out that it's the best one.
So that is in essence the whole concept behind this opera confidence bar algorithm and that's how it
solves the multi unbandaged problem.
It's it's a very interesting solution much more sophisticated and then just selecting randomly or running
an A B test and then selecting the option you know that that one.
So you know if you're in advertising or if you've got campaigns or if you come across problems that
are similar to this always just remember about pre-conference barn argument you can apply this in your
work as well.
Very powerful algorithm.
And on that note I hope you enjoyed today's tutorial in the next couple of videos Halonen will take
you through the programming of this algorithm both in our and in Python and you'll get your takeaway
templates and I can't wait to see you next time where we'll be talking about the Thomson sampling algorithm.
And until then in Germany learning.